SC3021 Excercise: What is Data Science?



Sample Solution Week 2 Tutorial


 Here are three short examples of real-world questions that can be addressed by data science.

 1. How does socioeconomic status impact access to education?

 2. How can we predict the failure of our machines?

 3. What products should we recommend to customers of our e-commerce platform?

              However, due to their brevity, some details of the underlying data science problem remain
unclear. This exercise focuses on elaborating and completing essential details that characterize a data
science problem, as defined in class.  The definition of Data Science is repeated here for convenience.
Highlighted terms are the focus of this exercise.

  Definition of Data Science [ ¨
                                      Oszu23]:   “Data science is a data-based approach to prob-
  lem solving by analyzing and exploring possibly multi-modal and heterogeneous data, extracting
  knowledge and insight from it, and using information for better decision-making. It involves the
  process of collecting, preparing, managing, analyzing, explaining, and disseminating the data
  and analysis results.”

 TASK: For one of the above sample questions, create and complete a table following the
template below.










1

Problem            [point out / discuss at least two details that would need to be clarified before
                   developing a solution. Rewrite a possible refined question that takes your pre-
                   vious points into account.]

                    1. Specific type of education? Which factors of socioeconomic status? Re-
                     fined to: How does family income affect access to secondary education?

                    2. What constitutes a failure? What kind of machine? In advance? Refined
                     to: How can we predict hydraulic failure of a drilling machine within one
                     month?

                    3. Specific types of products? What kind of customer, e.g., B2B, B2C, key
                     accounts? Refined to: What end consumer electronics should we recom-
                     mend to customers of our B2C e-commerce platform?

Data               [List in bullet points the data needed to answer the question. Specify if it is
                   multi-modal or heterogeneous (as below)]

                    1. (1) data about household income (gross, net, per household member),
                     likely tabular data.         (2) data about access to secondary education per
                     family income category, e.g., which secondary schools are attended, how
                     many members of the household attend(ed) secondary school, etc. Multi-
                     modal: NO, Heterogeneous: YES if collected from different agencies.

                    2. (1) Sensor measurements about hydraulic pressure (time series); (2) ma-
                     chine specifications about normal range of operation, (3) historical data
                     about normal and abnormal conditions leading to failure.     Multi-modal:
                     yes - time-series, semi-structured data, Heterogeneous: yes.

                    3. (1) product data, (2) shopping history of customers. Multi-modal: NO,
                     assuming both are available as structured / tabular datasets, Heteroge-
                     neous: YES, the column headers are different for the different files.

                   multi-modal: YES □ NO □         Heterogeneous YES □ NO □
Acquired           [What knowledge or insight the analysis necessary to answer the question could
knowledge    /     bring.]
insight             1. Correlation of household income and access to education, allowing for a

                     better understanding of whether one is potentially related to the other.

                    2. Analysis allows to potentially recognize when a machine will fail.

                    3. Allows to gain insights on what products customers may like.

Decision-          What decisions could the acquired knowledge / insight support?
making
                    1. Influence policies to improve access to education

                    2. Schedule maintenance of machine to avoid failure

                    3. Optimization of stocks in warehouses / procurement.


2